README.md, before:

# OpenTelemetry Hands-On

OpenTelemetry setup showing its capabilities.

Using:

- Node.js - To send traces, metrics and logs
- OpenTelemetry Collector
  - To receive metrics and logs
  - To export metrics to Prometheus and export logs to Loki
- Jaeger
  - To receive and visualize traces
- Prometheus - To gather metrics
- Grafana - To visualize metrics from Prometheus
- Loki - To visualize logs

## URLs

- Jaeger - http://localhost:16686
- Prometheus - http://localhost:9090
- Grafana - http://localhost:3000
  - User: `admin`
  - Default password: `admin`
- Loki - http://localhost:3100

## TODOs

- [ ] Decide whether to use Jaeger or OpenTelemetry Collector to collect traces, metrics and logs
  - [ ] If Jaeger: Find a way to export data sent to Jaeger to Prometheus for metrics and Loki for logs
  - [ ] If OpenTelemetry Collector: Find a way to export traces to Jaeger, metrics to Prometheus and logs to Loki

## App Set Up

```bash
cd ./app

# Use the correct Node.js version defined in .nvmrc
nvm use

# Install the dependencies
npm install
```

## Docker Compose Set Up

```bash
# Build the Docker Image in ./app
docker compose build

# Start the services
docker compose up -d

# Check the logs of the app
docker compose logs -f app
# ... or of the collector
docker compose logs -f collector
```

Commit message:

docs: clarify usage of Node.js in README
Updated the Node.js usage section to mention its role as an example app for sending traces, metrics, and logs via the OpenTelemetry SDK. This improves clarity and provides better context for users.

README.md, after:

# OpenTelemetry Hands-On

OpenTelemetry setup showing its capabilities.

Using:

- Node.js
  - An example app to send traces, metrics and logs via OpenTelemetry SDK
- OpenTelemetry Collector
  - To receive metrics and logs
  - To export metrics to Prometheus and export logs to Loki
- Jaeger
  - To receive and visualize traces
- Prometheus - To gather metrics
- Grafana - To visualize metrics from Prometheus
- Loki - To visualize logs

## URLs

- Jaeger - http://localhost:16686
- Prometheus - http://localhost:9090
- Grafana - http://localhost:3000
  - User: `admin`
  - Default password: `admin`
- Loki - http://localhost:3100

## TODOs

- [ ] Decide whether to use Jaeger or OpenTelemetry Collector to collect traces, metrics and logs
  - [ ] If Jaeger: Find a way to export data sent to Jaeger to Prometheus for metrics and Loki for logs
  - [ ] If OpenTelemetry Collector: Find a way to export traces to Jaeger, metrics to Prometheus and logs to Loki

## App Set Up

```bash
cd ./app

# Use the correct Node.js version defined in .nvmrc
nvm use

# Install the dependencies
npm install
```

## Docker Compose Set Up

```bash
# Build the Docker Image in ./app
docker compose build

# Start the services
docker compose up -d

# Check the logs of the app
docker compose logs -f app
# ... or of the collector
docker compose logs -f collector
```
